---
title: How Do Developers Blog? 
description: Our work on data-mining blogs and related artifacts in open source communities received the MSR'21 Most Influential Paper Award. Time to reflect.

category: Mining Software Repositories
date: 2022-01-01 10:00:00 
image: '/images/msr-mip-1.jpg'

---

A decade ago, the rise of GitHub and StackOverflow as social version control and knowledge sharing environments was about to
start. Social media like Twitter were mocked by some software engineering researchers and practitioners as “tools for kids not professionals”. At that time, we published one of the [first papers](https://teamscale.com/hubfs/26978363/Publications/2012-how-do-open-source-communities-blog.pdf) on social media in software engineering at MSR 2011, the Mining
Software Repositories Conference.

Until then, the MSR community focused primarily on mining source code from version control systems, e.g., for defect prediction or quality assurance1. We were thus pleased when the MSR program committee accepted our – back then rather exotic – paper, for which we mined usage patterns and topics of blog posts collected from four large open source communities via a blog aggregator.

Our goal was to understand the blogging behavior around software development projects and to explore the relationship between blogging and other development activities. 
We envisioned a twofold potential of social media in software engineering: 

1. As a new “modern” way of lightweight documentation and knowledge sharing.

2. As a rich data source to understand and stimulate collaboration between developers and users. 

When we were informed that our publication won the most influential paper award ten years later, we were even more surprised. 
We took this opportunity to thank the community and [reflect](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3468744.3468753) on what we did in our paper and what has happened since then.

We also recorded this video:

<p><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/g8_JFLRg7n4" loading="lazy" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

